How does it feel to be
a murderer?
You visited Doris.
You poisoned the tonic.
And somehow the bottles
were mislabeled.
- It was suicide.
- But it wasn't.
So you would rather think
that I killed an innocent woman
for some bizarre Communist plot
than that Regina was out
to harm me?
Yeah.
Sergeant, any harassing
of any of the crowd,
and you will have me
to answer to.
It's Sarah.
Harry was beaten
for being homosexual.
He can recover here without
any stigma attached to him.
JACK:
I doubt George will thank you.
Nor James.
Harry.
He can't see me.
He can't.
If you weren't so pathetic,
you'd be laughable.
It's a really good story.
A roman à clef inevitably risks
offending or causing pain.
I love you.
We never used the word.
You can explain how you thought
you could rape my daughter
and suffer no consequences.
You say anything, and the world
will know she's a slut.
- You filth!
- Jesus Christ! Bloody woman!
You vile, rutting pig!
How dare you.
"I am a fierce
and vengeful God."
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
CAROLYN:
She was in your room?
While I was asleep.
You will treat me with respect
or I will pull your entire world
down around your ears!
Enough!
GEORGE:
Mother stays.
I would love Carolyn to move
back to prepare for her wedding,
and I would appreciate Olivia
moving back into the house.
And, Regina,
we will move you to the cottage.
One final thing.
The child that Mrs. Nordmann
is carrying is mine.
George!
- sync and corrections by Mr.C -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Not required.
Ma'am?
(ENGINE STARTS)
Is it too much to hope
we're seeing the last of her?
Can't imagine her rushing back.
I wish I shared your optimism.
Are you all right?
Yes.
Thank you.
A little water, perhaps?
Oh.
Gino?
Well, what's here for her now?
Sarah with George's child,
our smug smiles,
and banishment
to the guest cottage.
A touch too much excitement.
She did take luggage.
A single suitcase and no driver,
which suggests
a temporary flounce
rather than any
extended absence.
She's up to something.
I beg your pardon.
She loves being driven around,
so why not today?
A driver knows
where he's taking you,
so wherever she's headed,
she doesn't want you knowing.
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
I just rather firmly put
my house in order.
I wish this came as easily.
It's all such a tangle, George.
How on earth did we get to this?
Starting from
such fine intentions.
- (CHUCKLES)
- We did.
And now you're married.
But I love you.
The marriage is a simple
convenience.
And legal,
which is not easily abandoned.
You've a political career
to consider.
And you.
And our child.
To the world, René's.
I won't have our baby labeled
a bastard.
We can go around and around
the problems
or we can consider
a happier future.
Can I say what I hope?
Of course.
It's unlikely
I won't be elected.
I'll consolidate the position
in Canberra.
When the time is right,
Regina and I will divorce.
After an appropriate interval...
we'll be free to marry.
I...
(SIGHS)
I can't make any promises.
But you can consider it.
So much has happened to go back.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
Maybe we can come together again
as different people.
If it's right.
- You're not closed to the idea?
- No, but I...
I think it's best left there.
One final thing.
I told the family
about the baby.
You had no right to do that...
Regina found a codicil
to my will.
I didn't want them hearing it
from her.
They're sworn to silence.
How long has she known
about this?
I'm not sure.
Why?
It could explain something.
Be very careful of her, George.
She's under control.
Perhaps not as much
as you think.
We'll always love each other.
But in what way, I'm not sure.
Time.
Will tell.
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
SGT. TAYLOR:
Mrs. Bligh.
(DOOR CLOSES)
I thought it best
we speak out here.
I can't imagine you're thrilled
by yesterday's events.
My husband is sadly blind
to that woman.
So is most of the town.
But Nordmann was doing
her rounds
in the days
leading up to the murder.
The teacher left
her cottage unlocked
while she was at school...
- There we are.
- which gives her opportunity.
But making a case against
a nutter is always the hardest.
People get bamboozled by them.
That leaves us with two choices,
then, doesn't it?
Enlighten these people
or keep trying to find a way
to remove her.
It's a lot of minds to change.
The latter, then.
Don't you agree?
I require an address
to that end.
And, of course, this
conversation never occurred.
What conversation?
Whose address?
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYS)
Will you do something for me?
Hmm?
James couldn't wait to leave
once Father had gone.
Clear the air.
Please.
At least enough to be
in the same room together.
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Yes?
You and Olivia are divorcing,
yeah?
It's best.
You won't be marrying again,
right?
No.
When we see each other,
I'll be polite.
There's no need to rush off.
But just so you know,
what you are is wrong.
To you.
- You'll go to hell.
- I don't believe that.
- The Bible says so.
- It says a lot of things.
"Honor thy mother and father,"
for one.
You'd never have married Anna
if you'd done that.
Something about casting
the first stone, too.
I did this for Anna.
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Dr. Duncan.
Thanks, Rose.
A woman in your condition
isn't up to attacking someone.
Did I?
A slip with a fruit knife?
Huge ruddy coincidence.
He showed no remorse.
I lost control.
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
You sliced him open.
Well, the knife was to hand.
And he was powerless to protest,
given the company.
I wish I'd done it.
One thing for sure...
He won't take it lying down.
Well, he needs George
in his parliamentary pocket.
That alone protects me.
Your blood pressure
must be through the roof.
You need to look after yourself.
We would like you here
for the wedding.
(SHEEP BLEATING,
BIRDS CHIRPING)
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
I'm expanding the guest list.
The wedding is here.
Oh.
Whatever you want.
(LAUGHS)
Perfect husband response.
(CHUCKLES)
Eventful night, I hear.
I hope that's an end to it,
then.
Tit for tat?
With a mongrel like him?
Let's make sure it gets
no nastier than it has.
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
(GROANS)
You're wasting no time.
It's what George wants.
You know where to put them,
Rose.
Which room would you like?
I'd like to be with James.
Thank you.
It will help to stifle
staff conjecture.
Are you sure you can forgive me?
Let me show you my new roses
once you're settled.
His home is always here...
if that's decided as best
for him.
It's a decision
for you and James alone.
Oh, deep love can drive
any of us
to acts we might never
have imagined.
Believe me.
That I understand.
You got some little baby teeth
coming through, don't you?
Yes, you do.
Come on. Show Daddy
your little baby teeth.
- (BABY COOING)
- Where are your baby teeth?
Come on.
Show Daddy your baby teeth.
Sarah's baby might make things
easier if it's a boy.
It would remove all controversy
over who might inherit
after you.
Oh, I'll fight for Georgie
no matter what.
He'll be next in line after me.
You will?
Of course.
Even...
Even if he leaves with me?
Given who I am, he's
the only son I'll ever have.
So yes... wherever he's raised.
But he's not blood.
Let's leave antiquated cant
like that to Father, shall we?
It's what's in here that counts.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYS)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
- Mm.
- Mother?
Oh.
I hope I didn't upset you
this morning.
Oh, on the contrary.
I was very proud of you.
It was time to restore order.
Which you did, admirably.
You know of Regina's departure?
She's welcome to simmer
wherever she likes.
As long as she's back
well before election day.
And Sarah?
That's where you've been.
We had the talk that was needed.
And I'm staying out of it,
as requested.
I've arranged to have lunch
with her...
on another matter entirely.
As a friend, of course.
How far she and I have come
that I can say that.
I was ordered out to what
amounts to servants' quarters,
and then he scurries off
to that filthy whore.
Enough.
I won't say it again.
You had one job...
to control him.
If you hadn't been so smug about
it,
you might have headed this off
at the pass.
I don't like failure.
If you think
that I'm going to...
No one swans about
promising me coal mines
and then bails
because her indulged little nose
is out of joint.
Do you really expect me
to toady to him
while the rest of them snigger
behind my back?
Do you really expect me
to go sailing in for you
and have him ask questions?
They turned him against me.
The minute he sniffs we're
in cahoots, it's game over.
(TYPEWRITERS CLICKING,
TELEPHONE RINGING)
I thought we were allies.
Friends.
We have a deal.
I saw you married.
You control him.
You got him.
I get my coal mine.
Now, get back there.
And make sure
you're so repentant,
the angels themselves will weep.
I found a way
to get rid of the Jew.
Oh, bloody hell, woman.
You're obsessed.
- She may have murdered...
- Forget about her...
and do what we agreed on.
No more, no less.
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
(THUNDER CRASHES)
(INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS)
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYS)
Sister Nordmann, I'll be outside
in the sun when you're ready.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
My indisposition makes me
appreciate the small things.
It's a lovely day.
You implied you had something
to share with me about Regina.
You have no comment on the baby?
George has asked me
to keep my counsel.
And if you were
to say something?
I would ask that you be
as generous towards him
as your heart allows.
Which I haven't said, of course.
So...
Regina.
I'm sure she murdered
Milly Davis.
The schoolteacher?
She drank from a bottle of tonic
meant for me.
Regina poisoned it.
She wanted to kill you
and the child.
So you could believe her
capable.
Oh.
I have stared into her eyes as
she refused me my heart pills.
She slipped into my room
last night.
You're preaching
to the converted.
You've clearly no proof.
No.
The police?
Well, she called them
as soon as I confronted her.
It was my word against hers.
She's the respectable Mrs. Bligh
with an untarnished reputation.
I'm a Communist out to damage
George at the polls.
And so she is the victim.
Well, who else knows of this?
Only Roy.
She can't possibly get away
with this.
She has, Elizabeth.
Well, you will certainly not
be sipping
from any cup she's prepared.
I doubt she'd risk anything else
under the circumstances.
She deserves the noose.
She'll never get it.
But if we could put our minds
to it...
We must find some form
of justice.
(SIGHS)
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
Thought you were meant to stay
in bed.
I needed a walk.
Yeah.
Well, take it easy, mate.
I will.
Oi.
Ash Park, right?
I saw it.
- Just saw?
- Yes.
You go tomcatting over there,
and Missy or no Missy,
you'll be out on your ear.
Understood?
Yes.
Good.
Now get back to bed.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
Sergeant.
Take a seat.
I'll stand.
Thank you.
I felt a word was in order.
Sir?
I realize you must be
under the pump,
investigating the death
of Milly Davis.
Not an easy task, I'm sure.
Regarding yesterday.
I applaud your zeal.
Your methods, however...
Better safe than sorry.
Apart from harassing
innocent citizens,
how many voters
might you have turned against me
had I not appeared
and smoothed things over?
Can I be frank, sir?
Of course.
Well, seems the ones I targeted
weren't gonna vote for you
anyway.
Really?
Doris Collins?
She signed the petition
along with the rest of them.
Let's not concern ourselves
with a petition.
Or with votes, for that matter.
If we could bring this t...
A petition backing
the Nordmann woman.
That would be Sister Nordmann,
Sergeant.
She told the kids
they could turn Jew,
how to convert.
Half the Jew youth groups
are Communist cells.
Ask Reverend Green.
The Reverend delivers
a fine sermon.
His tolerance of other faiths,
however, is...
is rather limited.
All I know is anyone who signs a
form backing that sort of thing
needs looking into.
Mrs. Bligh agrees.
My wife's opinions
aren't relevant.
Leave Mrs. Nordmann
and her supporters be.
With all respect, sir, it's not
your place to give that order.
You want to play favorites
at your own gate, fair enough.
But other than that,
I'll do as my job requires.
Anything else?
You tread warily, Sergeant.
You too, sir.
A man like you...
The Reds would love you
in their pocket.
Sergeant.
Only thinking of you, sir.
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
It's very rough, but I believe
the essence is there.
It's an original story
based on you.
But it's not meant to be you.
There's a lot of hypothesis.
Of course, I don't know how
you were thinking at the time,
but you can tell me if you like.
Or not, if you don't mind
my making it up.
I'm sorry.
I do.
It was a very, um, painful time.
You agree?
Excuse me.
My book.
It's nothing you can't hear.
Grandmother did warn me.
We're soon to be married.
We're realizing the dream
we thought we'd lost.
It's the wrong time
to be dredging up the past.
I told her of the risks
in a roman à clef.
Inevitably,
people read between the lines
and know who it's really about.
I'm sorry, sweetheart.
It's been a tiring day.
Good night.
- Good night, Mother.
- Sweet dreams.
Chin up.
ANNA:
I've worked so hard on this.
JACK:
It's... It's beautiful writing.
ANNA: What if I changed
the doctor to a lawyer?
Or what if I set it
in Queensland?
- Jack?
- CAROLYN: Sweetheart...
Uh, will you be leaving soon?
Not long.
Good.
Would you mind delivering
something to Sarah
on your way home?
Sure.
And ask her to drop in
at her earliest convenience.
(UP-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
Thank you.
You will find another story
in no time.
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
(PAPER RUSTLING)
I didn't like disappointing her.
It's deeply personal material.
I'm not sure I'd want my part
of it under a microscope either.
I won't intrude.
I just wanted to say
I've returned.
I accept I still have duties
to the campaign.
Harsh though your words seemed
at the time, George,
they have brought clarity.
Perhaps if you visit me
tomorrow.
I'll avoid the house
unless... invited.
Good night.
I-I am sad, but resigned.
No.
Accepting.
Any future tensions
will not come from me.
Good night.
Don't say it.
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYS)
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
Early as possible tomorrow,
she said.
Is that all?
Yeah.
She had quite the bounce
in her step, though.
Two exclamation marks?
Yes.
Make sense?
Oddly, I think it does.
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYS)
Thanks for driving me.
I wouldn't have been
up to trudging it again.
Ah. I'd forgotten
how tranquil it is here.
(CHUCKLES)
It stops Roy thinking I'm
sniffing around Ash Park, too.
You know, he doesn't like a lot
of people, but he does like you.
Coming?
Oh, I didn't bring a costume.
Uh, I'm one of the few men
you don't have to worry about
on that score.
You should do that more often.
Smile.
All right.
Come on.
Ah!
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
Oh.
(CHUCKLES)
Chilly.
(DOOR OPENS)
I thought you'd be out and about
by now.
Father's just off the telephone.
Henry's coming.
To check on his health.
- When?
- This afternoon.
He may be asked
to stay overnight.
How do we best handle it?
We will treat him
like any other guest.
Thank you.
I doubt I'd be as understanding
if it were Lloyd.
Lloyd is halfway to England.
Anyway, he has no excuse
to come.
Henry does.
I would like a moment alone
with him when he arrives.
If it helps.
I believe it will.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
Well, that was the perfect start
to the day.
The water helps my aches
and pains.
Balm for tensions, too.
We should come every day.
I won't complain.
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
You were Sister Adams before.
You're Mrs. Nordmann now.
Yes.
Was Mr. Nordmann the man who was
in the hospital all that time?
Yes.
I thought I'd lost him
for all those years.
I found him again,
but... just recently he died.
At least you still have part
of him.
Oh.
Yes.
What?
Nothing.
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
Thank you.
For reminding me so of him.
(SIGHS)
I have an appointment.
It seems wrong, ma'am,
you out here.
Didn't I tell you?
That old hag's out to ruin
my marriage.
I'm sorry, ma'am.
Anything else I can get you?
There is.
Pen and ink and an aerogram.
It must be nice having friends
overseas.
Interesting.
More so sometimes than others.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
At the very least
we have to expose her...
and in a way that limits
her chance of rebuttal.
It's a tall order.
Well, I've formed a plan
which may well work.
As you've said,
her persona is unassailable.
You've been dismissed as a Red,
sowing dissent.
I can do little on my own.
There is, however, one person
who could overturn
her untarnished reputation,
providing that
you're comfortable
about bringing her
into our confidence.
Aren't you worried for yourself?
I'm keeping an eye out.
Even knowing all I do about her,
I can't believe it.
That's exactly the problem.
Who will believe it
of a woman of her standing
without sufficient proof?
Well, I do, of course.
It's just...
You accept it
because you wish to.
Others, on plain facts,
may see it as vicious fancy.
So she'll get away with it?
She has.
Legally.
But there is the court
of public opinion.
And that's where my plan
plays out.
Now, you remember what I said
about a roman á clef?
Readers recognize the truth
behind the fiction.
And reputations can be slayed.
Suppose you wrote a novel
in the vein of Josephine Tey.
Death by poison
of a young schoolteacher...
well, perhaps make her
a librarian...
and the story surrounding it.
Names and places changed,
but sufficient to the purpose.
That's the work of months and a
good year before it's published.
Well, justice delayed
is better than none at all.
But she won't just read it
and confess.
Oh, believe me, this is
much better than a confession.
Locals who read the book
will see the obvious parallels.
And one chat with Prudence
Swanson will see society primed.
We will hang Regina's good name
even if we can't hang Regina.
She'll sue.
Knowing her nature, exactly.
Nothing suggests guilt
more than indignation.
We hope to inspire interest
from the police...
higher up than the blinkered
Sergeant Taylor.
Wouldn't it be easier
to just spread the rumors now?
I thought as much at first,
but...
A book has longevity, substance.
It will sit in bookshops,
homes, libraries
and be on an ongoing thorn
in her side.
It might seem farfetched,
Anna...
But there is a long-term
brilliance to the whole thing.
Sadly, no proof absolute,
but better than that she escapes
censure altogether.
There's a missing piece to this.
Once you've delivered
your manuscript,
it could give it proof absolute.
If we play our cards right...
Regina would provide it herself.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
(TYPEWRITER CLICKING)
"She lay on the floor
of the library...
back arched,
froth at the corners
of her mouth.
'She'd not an enemy
in the world, '
the assistant librarian murmured
through tears.
'Surely not...'
Her mouth refused to form
the word
as her mind recoiled from it.
'suicide.'"
What's got you all fired up, eh?
Destroying Regina.
(BRAKES SQUEAK,
ENGINE SHUTS OFF)
I thought we'd said our goodbye.
I don't mind another.
What?
I just heard from a member
of the hospital board.
Things just got nastier.
Your case?
No, no.
And it may be nothing,
but... Sir Richard just offered
ú5,000 to the hospital
for the establishment
of a new surgical unit.
He says his injury
and George's shooting
highlight the need
for better surgical facilities.
What's he up to?
Just be careful in Sydney.
If he is wanting to hit back
at Elizabeth.
You think that's what this is?
It's malevolence, not charity.
It gives him influence
over the hospital board
and by extension,
more say in all our lives.
It's possibly a stunt
leading into the election.
- The George Bligh Wing...
- The timing is too suspect.
No answering the door
without knowing who it is, okay?
Are you telling Mother?
It's probably what he wants...
loading her with stress
through us.
Absolutely not.
Thank you.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYS)
(BIRDS CHIRPING)
Doctor.
Henry, please.
James said you wished to see me.
Yes.
(CLEARS THROAT)
I didn't mean to pry.
No. Really.
It was in plain view.
Lloyd, in fact, is part
of what I wish to discuss.
James and I are finding
an equilibrium.
Yet when he approached me
about your visit today,
he felt awkward.
And there really is no need.
If you and I could be friends,
it would be good all 'round,
don't you think?
It would certainly help me.
I do feel some guilt.
Unnecessary.
We've enough to resolve
regarding Georgie
without this getting in the way.
So we're agreed?
And delighted.
You feel no jealousy?
It's a selfish emotion.
I feel... relief.
He has a fitting companion.
You seem very sure
I'll do what's right by him.
With Elizabeth his grandmother?
You'll be petrified not to.
I see why James loved you.
Loves you.
Likewise.
Henry.
Great minds.
I was coming
to suggest a canter.
Ah.
Scraps from the emotional table.
Is that necessary?
I am out in the kennels.
Why not feel
like one of the hounds?
Tomorrow evening.
The local merchants
association dinner.
Your attendance...
would be of value.
George.
I'm sorry.
Can you blame me
for feeling bitter?
I can blame you
for how you manifest it.
A ride.
A wonderful idea.
The two of us.
Another time, when the
suggestion comes more naturally.
One more thing.
Sergeant Taylor...
You're to have nothing more
to do with him.
- I...
- As of this moment.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
It's Mrs. Bligh.
Could you ask Mr. Bligh's doctor
to visit me at his convenience?
Thank you.
When do you close?
Good.
It's before then
and on a Sunday.
(KNOCK ON DOOR)
Drinks after the show tonight
and we'll firm up arrangements.
(LAUGHS)
Love to Kevin.
(SMOOCHES)
Who is it?
MAN:
Uh, flowers, ma'am.
(VEHICLES PASSING)
Our condolences.
Oh.
I think you have
the wrong address.
It's Carolyn Bligh?
Yes.
Right address.
Who is it from?
Doesn't say.
Can you sign here?
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
(TYPEWRITERS CLICKING,
TELEPHONE RINGING)
Ma'am?
You can't go in there.
I'm sorry, sir.
She just barged
straight through.
That's all right.
Shut the door.
Leave it.
As the lady says.
I use the term loosely.
What is this?
It looks like a wreath.
What is your point?
Someone's playing a cruel joke.
You did what you did.
Mother retaliated.
Call that an end
to the savagery.
My book feels unbalanced.
But, uh, what's it got to do
with this?
Somehow, someday...
there will be justice.
I'm more sinned against
than sinning.
Hmm?
Must be unsettling,
having someone send something so
indicative of malicious intent.
You can leave now.
I am up to anything
you toss at us.
I'm the master
of the curve ball.
ROY:
Ruddy long way to go about it.
Yeah, but at least it's a way.
George will finally see her
for what she is,
and then the rest of the world.
(EXHALES DEEPLY)
Three months.
A lot of time
for her to do damage.
I'll be cautious.
It's not such a long time.
It's not just you now.
Penny for your thoughts.
Takes me back
to my Resistance days.
Never spring the ambush
until it's fully in place.
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
I'm so glad you saw my argument,
Henry.
He'll need it
during the election.
The pain has made him
quite fractious.
It's resulted
in our current alienation.
I did try to convince him
earlier.
And he would have none of it,
I'm sure.
If it's here, I'm in a position
to subtly suggest
should it become necessary.
It's a drug
that needs vigilance,
but it's pointless
him suffering.
Exactly.
How lucky he is to have you.
He's lucky to have your concern.
Mrs. Bligh.
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
Hello?
It's me.
You and Livvy carried off dinner
with aplomb.
She's a wonderful woman.
It felt marvelous sitting there
between you both.
It's not something
I ever would have expected.
Two people who love you.
(CLEARS THROAT)
It's, um... it's okay.
You don't have to say it.
Yes, I do.
I do love you.
(SHEEP BLEATING)
(DOWN-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
(BABY COOING)
Whoo-hoo!
(GRUNTS)
(MUSIC CONTINUES)
I hope it's not too cold.
(BOTH LAUGHING)
Oh.
Well, the water's bracing
to say the least.
Sarah, you remember Henry.
Sister Miracle.
They're still talking about
your saving George's life
in the ambulance that day.
James Bligh.
Any friend of Sarah
is a friend of mine.
Harry Polson.
Pleased to meet you.
We can't stop.
Going to be late for breakfast.
I hope all goes well.
Thank you.
Well, it was nice
to see you again.
Mr. Polson.
He doesn't want to know me.
Who's he?
I have no idea.
He doesn't remember you.
(MID-TEMPO MUSIC PLAYING)
- sync and corrections by Mr.C -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org